---
layout: page
title: Wenbin Fei's CV
tags: [wenbin, CV]
modified: 
comments: false
share: false
image:
  feature: 
  credit: 
  creditlink: 
---
### Academic Histories
##PhD research topic 
I have received my PhD completion letter from The University of Melbourne on 04 August 2020 and degree on 05 October 2020. My completion letter shows that my disciplines are Civil Geotechnical Engineering and Petroleum and Coal Geology since I worked on multi-discipline research. My PhD thesis focuses on Particle-scale study of heat transfer in granular geomaterial under loading aiming to guide the design of engineering projects such as geothermal engineering, petroleum engineering, concretes manufacturing, tailing dam in which heat transfer and mechanical response play crucial roles. My PhD project was fully funded by Melbourne Research Scholarship and my thesis was nominated by my thesis examiners for Vice-Chancellor award. I have pioneered the development of a new data-driven framework to study the relationship between microstructure and heat transfer automatically without human bias. I am the first researcher who combined several advanced techniques (e.g. computed tomography (CT), complex network theory, new thermal network model and artificial intelligence) in such a framework and applied the complex network theory in the study of heat transfer at the first time all over the world. My PhD thesis is integrated by 6 fist-author papers published on top tier journals, referring to paper 1-6 in publication section of my CV. According to Scimago Journal & Country Rank, International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer ranks 2/115 in Fluid Flow and Transfer Processes and Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Engineering ranks 2/263 in Geotechnical Engineering and Engineering Geology. The outcomes also were presented orally at international conferences such as Interpore conference held by the International Society for Porous Media.
During my PhD, I also succeeded in applying for a grant from Australian Synchrotron [AS1/IMBL/15795] to conduct 48 hours (Equivalent AUD 65,568) of CT scanning. In addition, my supervisor and I have submitted an ARC Discovery Project [DP210100433] application entitled “Heat transfer and fluid flow in geomaterials: Physics-inspired AI framework” based on my PhD work in February 2020.
b) Master research topic
I received my master degree from the Chinese Academy of Sciences (ranked 1st in China for its postgraduate study) with a thesis entitled “Coupled multi-physical analysis of carbon dioxide storage in deep saline aquifer combining with overlying coal exploitation in ordos basin”. The master project was funded by China Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Fund [Grant No. 2012087] aiming to ensure the safety of coal mining while reducing the climate change by injecting the carbon dioxide in the Ordos basin which is widely known as the “coal sea” in northern China.. A software was developed to solve the complex coupled thermo-hydraulic-mechanical-chemical (THMC) problems in large industrial geometry models. Since the THMC is comprehensive in engineering projects including deep/shallow geothermal engineering, petroleum/gas industry, mining projects, nuclear waste disposal and carbon dioxide geosequestration. 4 papers and a software registration have been published, referring to paper 7-8, 11-13 in the publication section of my CV. The journal Engineering Geology ranks no.1 in the area of Engineering, Geological according to InCites Journal Citation Reports.
2) Employment Histories
a) Research fellow at The University of Melbourne, 2020 - Current
From June 2020, I started to work as a research fellow for The University of Melbourne funded by ARC Linkage project on Optimisation of shallow geothermal systems for Australian schools (LP160101486) and ARC Linkage project on designing poultry brooder houses using geothermal technology (LP160100070). Hence, I now have more opportunities to investigate the heat transfer not only in particle-scale as in my PhD project, but also on a large scale – the whole systems such as energy geo-structures. In the current Australian Small-scale Renewable Energy Scheme (SRES), shallow geothermal systems are encouraged to be installed for individuals and businesses given their efficiency and much-reduced carbon emissions. Traditional foundations can be used in shallow geothermal systems as ground heat exchangers to provide thermal comfort to buildings. Constructing new foundations with dual structural and thermal functionality has been proved to be economically viable and environmentally sustainable.
I have collaborated with Dr Asal Bidarmaghz from UNSW, Sydney and Dr Nikolas Makasis from the University of Cambridge on a novel cooling underground system (energy tunnel) to keep the substations in tunnels working in a proper temperature. A journal paper has been written up and is ready to submit. In order to solve the seasonal effect on energy geo-structures (e.g. energy piles), I am applying Phase Change Materials to store (i.e. energy storage) the heat in summer and use it in winter, in collaboration with A/Prof. Sheng Dai from Georgia Institute of Technology and A/Prof. Douglas D. Cortes from New Mexico State University. Since soils are the media which foundations are built-in and extract heat from. Soil improvement techniques are routinely used in the construction industry to increase the mechanical strength of soils. However, methods to improve the low heat transfer capability of natural soils are missing. Therefore, I am collaborating with two worldwide known top scientists Prof. Carlos Santamaria (King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, i.e. KAUST) and Prof. José Andrade (California Institute of Technology) for the study of geotechnical together with heat transfer. On this topic, I also submitted an application of 2021 Early Career Researcher Grant (ECRG) supported by the head of the infrastructure department at The University of Melbourne. The knowledge from the ECRG project will also help design more efficient and low-cost energy foundations which are already used in Melbourne Central station and Melbourne Connect. 
In addition, I achieved an industrial grant on “Modelling of open-loop coaxial ground heat exchangers [UoM 18552]” from Hot Dry Rocks Pty Ltd. This deep geothermal system is proposed for the first time in the world to circulate water in the same well and through the rock formation simultaneously to extract heat. I conducted numerical simulations to prove and optimise the configuration of the system.
I am also supervising three PhD students who have already gained student visa and working on their PhD projects even though they cannot officially commence the PhD due to the Covid-19. I am also helping review papers for some journals such as Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering and Greenhouse Gases: Science and Technology.
b) Teaching experience helping to establish my future career, 2017 – current
I have continued developing my teaching skills while engaging in my PhD research at the University of Melbourne. I achieved the certificate to be a professional tutor after finishing six, 2 hour intensive workshops which cover learner-centred pedagogies, effective questioning to provoke learning, scaffolds to support learning, etc. Then, I had 3 years of teaching and 1 year of coordinating experience for two large postgraduate subjects: System Modelling and Design [CVEN90050] and Geotechnical Engineering [CVEN30010]. I participated in the subject design, assignments and exam design, budget allocation, learning management system design, exam questions design, tutorials, practical classes, consultations, marking and demonstrations for students. This diverse teaching and coordinating experience together with my research records secured me a research fellow position in June 2020.
c) Testing Engineer at Bamford Rock Testing Services(BRTS), 2018 – current
Bamford Rock Testing Services was established by Dr Bill Banford who is recognised as a world leader in the field of specialised rock testing. Dr Bamford is currently an honorary Principal Fellow and Associate Professor in the Melbourne School of Engineering at the University of Melbourne. His specialisations include rock mechanics, mine design, geotechnical engineering. He held the position of Vice-President for the International Society for Rock Mechanics for 8 years. 
I joined the team as a part-time testing engineer since 2018. This working experience not only strengthens my knowledge of the numerous rock testing methods for applications such as drilling, shafting, blastability, road headers, Trenching and Tunnel Boring Machines, but also nourish me with Australian and international standards as well as the management and operation of an Australian company.
d) Geotechnical Engineer, China Railway Siyuan Survey and Design Group Co., LTD, 2014 - 2016
The company belongs to China Railway Construction Group Corporation which ranks 54th among the world’s top 500 companies reported by Fortune in 2020. The company is famous for its contribution to the design and construction of Chinese high-speed railways and city metros. It established a new department to extend its business to the highway, municipal roads and port. In 2014, I worked with excellent senior engineers to design a highway and being trained in several large projects, which makes me grow fast and later become an independent designer and also enable me to grab an opportunity to be a leader of a geotechnical group of four members to design six municipal highway in Hainan island. In the projects, we pioneered the application of sponge city (permeable pavement and low impacted development drain) in China. We also pioneered the design of utility tunnels which combine utility lines such as electricity, fibre optics, cable television, and telephone cables, steam, water supply pipes, and sewer pipes.

